Technical design for CORS policy (#738)
kyma-project/api-gateway: docs/contributor/04-40-cors-policy-design.md

# Proposal for APIRule API CORS headers configuration in IstioVirtual Service

## API Proposal

In Istio VirtualService, you can configure CORS using the following parameters:

> - **AllowHeaders** - defines a list of HTTP headers that you can use when requesting a resource. They are serialized into the **Access-Control-Allow-Headers** header.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **AllowHeaders** - defines a list of HTTP headers that you can use when requesting a resource. The contents of this list are serialized into the **Access-Control-Allow-Headers** header.
```

- **AllowMethods** - defines a list of HTTP methods allowed to access the resource. The contents of this list are serialized into the **Access-Control-Allow-Methods** header.

> **AllowOrigins** (of the type [StringMatch](https://istio.io/latest/docs/reference/config/networking/virtual-service/#StringMatch)) - specifies string patterns that match allowed origins. An origin is allowed if any of the string matchers find a match. If a match is found, the outgoing **Access-Control-Allow-Origin** header is set to the origin provided by the client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **AllowOrigins** - specifies string patterns that match allowed origins. An origin is allowed if any of the string matchers find a match. If a match is found, the outgoing **Access-Control-Allow-Origin** header is set to the origin provided by the client. The value must be of the type [StringMatch](https://istio.io/latest/docs/reference/config/networking/virtual-service/#StringMatch).
```

> - **AllowCredentials** (either `true` or `false`) - specifies whether the caller is allowed to send the actual request (not the preflight) using credentials. It translates into the **Access-Control-Allow-Credentials** header.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **AllowCredentials** - specifies whether the caller is allowed to send the actual request (not the preflight) using credentials. It translates into the **Access-Control-Allow-Credentials** header. The value can be either `true` or `false`.
```

> - **ExposeHeaders** - a list of HTTP headers that the browsers are allowed to access. It is serialized into the **Access-Control-Expose-Headers** header.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **ExposeHeaders** - defines a list of HTTP headers that browsers are allowed to access. The contents of this list are serialized into the **Access-Control-Expose-Headers** header.
```

We should allow exposure of all of those parameters. The structure that would hold this configuration would look like following:
```go
type CorsPolicy struct {
	AllowHeaders     []string               `json:"allowHeaders,omitempty"`
	AllowMethods     []string               `json:"allowMethods,omitempty"`
	AllowOrigins     []*v1beta1.StringMatch `json:"allowOrigins,omitempty"`
	AllowCredentials bool                   `json:"allowCredentials"`
	ExposeHeaders    []string               `json:"exposeHeaders,omitempty"`
	MaxAge           *time.Duration         `json:"maxAge,omitempty"`
}
```

## Security considerations

### Default values

It should be noted, that in the most secure scenario, CORS should be configured to not respond with any of the `Access-Control` headers. However since we need to consider backwards compatibility with current implementation, we should take notice that the current configuration, for all APIRules, is as follows:
```yaml
CorsAllowOrigins: "regex:.*"
CorsAllowMethods: "GET,POST,PUT,DELETE,PATCH"
CorsAllowHeaders: "Authorization,Content-Type,*"
```

**Decision**

> \

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> We have decided that the go to default values should be empty, meaning secure-by-default configuration. The transition to that default should be gradual, with staying with current CORS configuration for now.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default values should be empty to ensure the secure by default configuration. The transition to that default should be gradual, with the current CORS configuration staying in place for now.

> We have decided that the go to default values should be empty, meaning secure-by-default configuration. The transition to that that default should be gradual, with staying with current CORS configration for now.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We have decided that the go to default values should be empty, meaning secure-by-default configuration. The transition to that default should be gradual, with staying with current CORS configuration for now.
```

### CORS headers sanitization

> Another thing is that if the workload will provide CORS headers by it's own, Istio Ingress Gateway will NOT sanitize/change the CORS headers unless the request origin matches any of those that are set up in `AllowOrigins` VirtualService configuration. This is a possible security risk, because it might not be expected that the server response will contain different headers than those defined in the APIRule.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a workload provides its own CORS headers, Istio Ingress Gateway does not sanitize or change the CORS headers unless the request origin matches one of the origins specified in the **AllowOrigins** configuration of the VirtualService. This can pose a security risk because it may be unexpected for the server response to contain different headers than those defined in the APIRule.
```

```yaml
apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1beta1
kind: VirtualService
metadata:
  name: oauth2-test-ckxrj
  namespace: default
spec:
  gateways:
  - kyma-system/kyma-gateway
  hosts:
  - hello.local.kyma.dev
  http:
  - corsPolicy:
      allowHeaders:
      - Authorization
      - Content-Type
      - '*'
      allowMethods:
      - GET
      - POST
      - PUT
      - DELETE
      - PATCH
      allowOrigins:
      - exact: https://test.com
    headers:
      request:
        set:
          x-forwarded-host: hello.local.kyma.dev
    match:
    - uri:
        regex: /.*
    route:
    - destination:
        host: helloworld.default.svc.cluster.local
        port:
          number: 5000
      weight: 100
    timeout: 180s

```

**Decision**

> \

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> APIRule will become the singular source of truth, ignoring upstream response headers. If the configuration for CORS is empty, we should enforce the default configuration mentioned in [Default values](#default-values).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
APIRule must be the only source of truth and disregard the upstream response headers. If the CORS configuration is empty, the default configuration specified in [Default values](#default-values) should be applied.
